it is my honor and privilege to sentence
you because sir you do not deserve to
walk outside of a prison ever again I'm
giving you 175 years which is 2100
months I just find yourself orange his
life in prison for abusing gymnast under
his care take a look
dr. Larry Nasser is accused of sexually
abusing more than 150 girls over a
20-year period some as young as six
years old Nasser practice medicine at
Michigan State University and became the
chief medical coordinator for the u.s.
gymnastics team in 1996 traveling to
four Olympics as a trusted team doctor
but he betrayed that trust by performing
so-called medical exams where he would
commit brazen acts of sexual abuse Nasir
would sexually abuse the girls sometimes
while he was noticeably aroused if
parents were still in the room he would
put up a sheet to keep them from seeing
how he was abusing their children over
his decades as a sexual predator
some girls claimed they did share their
stories with school officials and
coaches but they were either not
believed or discouraged from speaking
out about it
those girls were finally able to break
their silence last week when 156 women
confronted him one by one in the
courtroom during his sentencing hearing
one of the most powerful statements came
during a surprise appearance by
three-time Olympic gold medal winner Aly
Raisman you are so sick I can't even
comprehend how angry I feel when I think
of you you lied to me and manipulated me
to think that when you treated me you
are closing your eyes because you had
been working hard when you are really
touching me an innocent child to
pleasure yourself you already know
you're going away to a place where you
won't be able to hurt anybody ever again
but I am here to tell you that I will
not rest until every last trace of your
influence on this sport has been
destroyed like the cancer it is
yeah
you know I don't do that very often no I
was telling her you know I'm a former
child sex crimes prosecutor and your
bravery and your courage I applaud you
and I will tell you as a former sex
crimes prosecutor people that abuse
children don't do so well in prison and
he will spend the rest of his life there
does that give you any solace I mean
it's it's so hard to put into words how
everything feels obviously him being put
away for the rest of his life is where
he should be and hopefully it sets an
example for any other abuser around the
world because there are so many of them
that their time is up and that abuse has
never ever ever okay but my work and the
army of survivors were not done yet we
still have to hold these organizations
accountable United States Olympic
Committee USA Gymnastics Michigan State
University they enabled this monster
they took his side over us for so long
a powerful statement a Nasser's hearing
I understand you initially were hesitant
to do that what ultimately changed your
mind so Wednesday night it was around 10
o'clock at night I was just online
looking at all of the powerful videos of
all of the survivors and I watched Kyle
Stephens say little girls grow into
strong women to destroy your world and I
was just blown away I mean you watched
these young girls at 15 years old the
way that they spoke the way they
delivered their speeches young girls
women it was just I mean it was I don't
even have words to describe I just felt
like I needed to be there and when I
went there I mean we just felt like we
were a family obviously under the
circumstances of where we met is not
where you want to meet someone and make
new family and friends but we will have
this bond forever and we're all working
together to create change what happened
was unacceptable but it was it was a
very last-minute decision but I am glad
that I did go Larry Nasser today he made
eye contact with you didn't he while you
were speaking just now I'm wondering you
know what was going through your mind
you think he felt sorry I felt like when
I was speaking he looked at me he kind
of just looked blank I don't think he I
don't think he understands what he
really did wrong I think he expects
everyone to feel bad for him he wrote a
letter to the judge saying it was unfair
and that you know you know he shouldn't
have to listen to everyone but I mean it
just and I called him out in my
statement because it's just absurd that
he that that's hard for you imagine how
all of us feel yeah you know it's
it's been incredibly painful for you to
relive the the abuse especially in that
courtroom but you were just 15 years old
when the abuse happened you were
required to see dr. Nasir either in a
hotel room a dorm room alone he didn't
wear gloves late at night for a long
time you didn't know that it was abuse
when did it's when did the lightbulb go
on that this is not okay well I think
this is why I feel it's so important to
talk about because when I was younger I
only thought that a stranger could hurt
me I didn't know and I never it never
occurred to me that somebody that you
could trust so much a doctor could hurt
you and I think that's why we really
have to continue talking about to
educate everyone especially these young
kids from the time that they're really
little that unfortunately when someone
you love can hurt you I can't tell you
how many moms have come up to me since
I've come forward saying that they found
out their husband was abusing their
daughter I mean we just our society
doesn't allow ourselves to really
understand how common abuse is and I did
find out when in 2015 I'm USA Gymnastics
hired a private investigator and France
Epler came to my house and interviewed
me and I was totally caught off guard
and I was used to just kind of sticking
up for him over the years my teammates
and I would talk amongst ourselves
saying he's really weird and he
definitely makes us uncomfortable but
then we would kind of make excuses and
we'd say well he does it to all of us so
it must be okay he's been doing it for
so long so if it was wrong he would have
already been caught and he's a doctor
and he's the Olympic doctor so he has to
be the best so we would always just make
excuses for in stick up for him and he
would give us gifts so we thought he was
he was there for us I thought he was my
friend and he really manipulated us we
have to teach everyone the grooming
techniques do you understand just
because someone's nice to everyone else
just because they give you gifts does
not mean they're a good person yeah
and I love how we abusers in this in
these stories are always the victim you
noticed that they become something right
so we won't remember this video of your
parents when you were dancing I guess or
doing your thing
they were wincing and to every move
while you competed at the Olympics they
loved you so much
how did they react when this happened
when you told them devastated you know
my parents have been so incredibly
supportive and from the moment that we
realized that Larry was a monster we
continually followed up with USA
Gymnastics to make sure they reported it
to the authorities and they told us that
they had but you know I regret trusting
them they said we're handling this and
they made me feel like if I kept
reaching out I was going to interfere
with the investigation I didn't want to
I didn't want to do that of course I
didn't want to tip off the investigation
and so you know that's why we need an
independent investigation to get to the
bottom of this because USA Gymnastics
the United States Olympic Committee
Michigan State University they enabled
this and they didn't handle it right and
we need to get to the bottom of it
should think of a female doctor whatever
male doctor in such a female business
well it's also where minors to and you
know we should have never ever been
alone with him he would actually come to
my hotel room work on me on my bed and
so USA Gymnastics knew about this
because they were too cheap to have a
different facility where we would go to
get therapy you know you should be
together as a group and he didn't have a
massage table he never used gloves but I
had never used a trainer or a doctor
before and I was so excited being on the
national team you would assume they'd
have the best people so I didn't know
anything differently so when people you
know asked how we didn't know it's
because we didn't know anything
differently and that's what we have to
talk about it to educate everyone about
it right you know you said you talked
about holding those accountable you said
MSU has been held accountable the USOC
in USA Gymnastics but what about the
face of US gymnastics Bella and Marta
Karolyi they have not been implicated we
should say that and they have denied
knowing that any of this ever took place
but did they bear some of the
responsibility you know I think that's
why even more we
to stress the need for an independent
investigation because I don't have the
answers we don't know all the people
that did know but for so long I mean for
30 years and that's just as far back as
we know everyone stood up for him
everyone thought he was the best doctor
and you know one person enough to
complain that he was making them
uncomfortable should have been enough
somebody nobody said your bravery again
speaks volumes your bravery and and the
bravery of the over 150 girls and women
that spoke up Bravo to you and I think
what you have done will lead to real
change for girls all across the country
like my daughter who is also a gymnast I
thank you
[Applause]
[Music]